# Michael Bentley
2019-01-17

Naturally, we like to surround ourselves with like-minded people, but is that
really beneficial for us?  To surround ourselves with like-minded people, we
doom ourselves to stay the same, never changing, forever with the same skills
and mindset.  With today's ever-increasing connectivity and a booming world
population, one can find others that think and act similarly to himself,
regardless of how extreme or erroneous one's thoughts and actions.  This can
validate illogical and malicious activities by standing together as a group.

Because surrounding oneself with similar people stagnates growth and
perspective, it then becomes beneficial to seek out people with different
interests and backgrounds.  Our world is not a world of seven billion
independent people living independent lives.  Rather, it is a world of
interdependence, whereby working with other people toward a common goal, more
can be achieved than competing against each other independently.

How does one become friends or allies with another person with different
interests and background?  It can seem difficult as there may not be common
ground to form a bond because of the different interests.  The best way to form
a strong alliance is to work together toward an objective which neither has the
full skill and background to achieve alone.  By working together, yet
separately, mutual respect and admiration can form as both parties complete the
other's faults.

As an example, there was an African-American pianist during the 1960's who
wanted to perform piano in some states that had very racist views and
background.  This pianist hired a bodyguard that was also from that same
background and held some prejudice views of people of other races.  Their
interests did not align, nor did their background and ideologies.  Yet, as they
worked together, they both were able to appreciate the strengths the other had
and became very good friends for the rest of their lives.  Through this
experience, both the African-American pianist, and the strong, but racist
bodyguard were able to expand their perspective, and through a paradigm shift,
were able to become allies, and then dear friends.

It is possible to become friends with others that think differently about the
world, even in there is contention there.  It takes patience, working together,
and respect.
